{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17134}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs22\lang9 SDLC \par
Nadir Shafiyev\par
11.15.2018\par
\b0\par
\par
These are kind of interview tecniques. \par
Ok Shahin what is Jira?\par
Jira is a project management tool which in Agile environment we use to to manage all our project including our testing. We are not seperating testing from development in Agile.  So in order to handle it what we use? Jira. Is Jira compatible with Agile, if yes how? I like when you get the question but don't want to answer it. Try it! Yes, at least.\par
So , is Jira compatible with Agile? \par
Yes.\par
Yes it is. This part is easy. Now How?\par
Khalili: ...\par
\b NS: \b0 Khalili means that he started learn something from me. So Jira, here you can show two abilities, that you are really good at Agile. What are the main ceremonies of Agile. While we task first way of the sprint. Also we need our backlog, for product and sprint as well. Jira is a great tool. How many days you have it's showing here. Jira is more compatible and is a good friend with Agile. You are full of Sprint improvement. You mentioned ceremonies, you mentioned backlog. Jira is a good reporting system. It's compatible with Agile, and demonstrates your progress during the Sprint. So that's one of the reasons people go with Jira rather than ALM.\par
At work Scrum team, imagine you all work in one work space, everyday you work from 8 am till 4 pm. But you have teams, sometimes you don't even sit together. Some people are in different countries, but we have a team. This work connects us. \par
The question is what's the relation of Jira between teams, Jira is administration inside the company all teams join there and use the database as well. Why it crashes? One person doesn't know and start using and create a misuse. \par
In Waterfall how they track things? In Waterfall people use ALM, but you can still use Jira. You have to do task for yourself. \par
When you start working you will see that it's not letter by letter implementation of scrumming every team.\par
Let's say I'm working 2 weeks sprint. Now there is holiday. \par
Should we join the upcoming sprint or one task for everyone, we can decide later, it's flexible. \par
Any in class questions?\par
....\par
Any problem with the Jira software at work? Jira administrator. There is seperate team. These are paid tool right? How it works. In enterprise level they have support as well, any issues they can't handle there is help. That's why it's paid tool.\par
Your advantage is you'll know jira and jira xray. Manual testers will not know it, it's difficult people to move. It's good skill to learn. It's just a tool, how you learn ?By using. After today's class you'll have enough information how to cover.\par
For me, I discovered all by myself. I had issue to sign in, I wasn't able to log in.\par
- Some companies, start up, they support open sort ids. \par
Open source mean, three people came together and made it free for people. Some companies use it because it's kinda start up. Selenium that's why it's famous. \par
There are some testing tools and market right now, in one user one machine 15k dollars.. It means you have 5 testers, at work, sometimes I use 5 different virtual machines. It means I'm testing there, in my work we have a lot of virtual machines. So I have to explain what it means... -\b (laughs from class).\par
\b0  It means I have to pay for each one licence then that's the idea why people move to open source, make it free, everyone can use it and support the idea. Sometimes licence companies support open source as well. People will use it and they will need technical support and pay for licence.\par
Every company has it's own internal messaging tool. Any kind of messenger. Cisco is famous about secure messaging tool. Jira is usually this kind of maintanence tool. Jira not working, cannot be a blocker for you. \par
Something doesn't work, if it affects your work, then it's a blocker. Let's say, AC doesn't blow cold weather. It doesn't work, but is it a blocker for us for coming here? Weather outside, but we are still here...\par
I'm writing all this terms at work we are using, one of them is\par
Lower environment. What does it mean? What comes to your mind? \par
\b Classmember: \b0 Lower environment. is where you apply your tools.\par
\b NS: \b0 I really like you're giving answer, it's a good skill in the interview. But wrong. We'll get the correct answer soon.\par
Lower environment, there is production and development environment, where you develop your test is lower environment. Now, it means that the applications has production at the lower environment. In order to test facebook messenger, what I need, I need an account,user name and password. At work usually how it is, they give you another user name and password to grant your access. They have plenty of application. \par
Your request goes to the specific part of department, they analyze it, get the manager's approval. For example I wanted to upload sublime, the manager asked me in email" What's sublime". And I had to explain, and it took 2 days for him to remember to do it. So how it works. If you don't have access in the lower environment, then it's a blocker.\par
Now let me look at slack before online people kill me.\par
\b Question: What's the natural way to talk in the interview? Can you give honest answers?\par
\b0 If your natural way to answer is the lady like giving answer to any question then yes, if the natural way is to answer only true answers. We should tell the truth but not always. It's unneccessary to tell every single truth in everywhere. Don't lie it's ok but when you are giving information you have to be selective. I don't give my personal information here right? So don't tell everything everyway. If it's your natural way is to talk everything unnecessary it's not the right approach in my opinion. In the interview it's a game. You have to know how to say things in a correct way. Now if you say I'm very shy, it's true but it won't get you the work. \par
You give away a lot of entertaintment to reach your goal right? So this is truth or not? Which one is better way, I'm very shy or to say "I'm so focused to finish my task sometimes I'm forgetting about my family" Then they will say let's hire this guy. \par
It's really good question Selim, thanks for asking. I'm saying try to sell yourself in a natural way, but don't say unnecessary stuff.\par
Interview is like an examination. I would love to see you guys on those positions not the guy who are able to pass interview and doesn't have your technical skills.\par
Oguz, I really don't work on dependancies a lot but in Jira when you create a user story, you can link that user story to others. We usually create user story for others. Whatever you are learning, let's say Selenium right? It's a library at the end of the day. It's some methods written in Java. Testers, we don't need that much, we need strong skills but we are not Java developers right? What we learn here is more than enough. To do some excercise to be prepared to Selenium. What will matter at work, when you learn Selenium are you able to click and to create test case. While you're doing it you'll see a lot of challenges. Is that enough to say we have experience, yes, but how you practice Java when you learn Selenium, do double amount of practice. Here they will give you practice, don't stop there. \par
Why people get jobs in market, because they have really good knowledge. There is not another school they teach this amount of knowledge at this time, but you guys will be number one at your work. Some pople can have some struggle but most people work like super stars becasue you guys are strong technically. You'll get all information you need.\par
Any other questions? \par
\b Online Question: What's verification and validation?\b0\par
\b NS: \b0 Verification and validation, this one you know right?\par
I wanna say something again to answer the question. it's warm here that's why you're sleeping or I'm boring that's why?\par
In the interview they will ask this question, and you can give a bookish answer. What's verification and what's validation?\par
\b -class member \b0 : you take a picture of driver's licence...\par
\b NS: \b0 Give me an example for verification.\par
\b Class member: \b0 Verification; are we doing our job right. Validation; are we developing the correct project.\par
\b NS:\b0 Give me example, can be anything. We buy apple machine. What will be verification, what will be validation.\par
\b Khalili: \b0 Verification is gathering requirement from documents..\par
\b NS:\b0  Even when you are repeating what Khaili said it's good practice to talk about. Now give me specific example, this is verification this is validation.\par
\b Khalili:\b0  Buying a machine, I will go online. I will look at the prices.\par
\b NS:\b0  Wait here, first I want Mac right. You do all your research. This is the thing that you want, verification. Then you do online order, before clicking submit you put your credit card and everything, before clicking submit you verify you enter correct information. Then you click submit, apple will give another page this is the machine you selected, then you validate, whatever you said is correct . Verification you do what you're gonna do in testing. Validation happens after, it's the result that what you want. Validating is to gather what you started. If someone is asking what's verification and what's validation. You don't start verification bla bla, just give an example. And act from your previous experience, let me give you from my experience, entering the information and before clicking submit you verify if the information is correct, after submitting whatever pops up it's we are validating if we did correct information. \par
Sometimes not everything should be related on the project, say from the regular examples.\par
\b Class member: \b0 Whenever I go to the...\par
\b NS:\b0 Validation, when the action is done, there is a result, if this result was in your requirement. Verification is the result you wanna get before you are doing the action.\par
 \b NS: \b0 All these are correct. But my point is guys, stay away the bookish answer, or provide the rule and give an example.\par
Khalili's answer was good, but then you need to provide an example too.\par
Look if you see these guys are like they are kinda what they want. Automation, you can learn it in couple of months man. What I'm telling just figure it who is interviewing you and go with the flow. \par
Interviews are your homework, before you're gonna go there, you will need to read the job description. And then see who will interview you, try to figure out where they work for, if they have facebook if they have kids. When I'm doing interview I talked about my daughter and he talked about his boys. Maybe he lives in your neighborhood.\par
Guys, only ask questions in slack ok?\par
So it is 7.56. Let's be back at 8.15.\par
Are we gonna handle everything at work? Not everything but most of the thing you learn is used here is also used in the work. It's doable. People are doing, I did it, so you're gonna do that. Don't miss the classes. Whatever you did in class make sure you did on your machine. Don't have any red warning on your eclipse. Whatever they showed in here, make it work in your machine. It's impossible to do everything hundred percent but you will fire out. So here you get that mindset as well, not only the tool.\par
So now, what we will do, we will create a test plan, test scenario, test case, test execution everything with Jira xray.\par
\b *creating test scenarios on jira.\par
\fs18 test case 1: Enter valid User Name and valid Password\par
test case 2: Enter valid User Name and invalid Password\par
test case 3 : Enter invalid User Name and valid Password\par
test case 4: Enter invalid User Name and Invalid Password\par
\fs22 *on google sheet, we wrote 3 user stories.\par
\b0 Usually our test scenario name is associated with your xray.\par
I usually do this, create issue/ summary: sample xtray testing  \par
description: This test plan is designed...\par
priority: medium. \par
Usually these are unplanned test tasks. Suddenly this is priority, they are squeezing it.\par
If you specifically say it's a high priority do it that way, otherwise it's medium.\par
Attachment: Let's say we have 20 user name and 20 attachments. You can do it here or onto the test itself, not very necessary.\par
linked issues: tests. \par
issue: SP-25 (without mentioning, it came as default.)\par
If we have any epic (big user story). Inside of it we have 20 user stories. Honestly I'm not doing. Let me create it.\par
So now it appears on Sprint backlog.\par
So first day of the sprint, you already created a test plan. Do you have anything inside, no. I started working, user story is there and I created that one. Even thinking about sample , it started moving it here. I also in my mind preparing testing what I'm gonna work on. It shows that tester is also working. Imagine this is our first day of sprint. User story is there, test plan is there. Second day, I already have three scenarios. I reviewed with other tester. Now I need to create them. When you say test plan you usually see your user story.\par
Why do we need our test plan in the user story? This is a good question, I like it's related. \par
So let's say that you are working on test plan. You're gonna create test scenarios and everything. According to what will you create test cases? Accepting criteria.\par
Where is the acceptance criteria? Inside of the user story. \par
In the description part: Acceptance Criteria: \par
\i Given\par
When\par
Then\par
\i0 Why we are linking it ;after some time even sprint is done, when there is 5 sprint you can see there are the links. I like to see the links ready, it takes time to look at the user stories.\par
Did you do \i definiton is Done \i0 in the user stories? \par
Acceptance criteria is part of the user story, but definition is done is not. \par
User story should be tested by who didn't develop it. Demo should be done, business should be accepted in the user story. Every team can have it's norm of accepting, definition is  done. Acceptance criteria, every specific test is for that user story. \par
Let me tell again. I have sP-25. I have 4 more Sp... whatever. We're working on it. I need to move, let's say that. Before I move to testing for done, if it's develop environment, it should be tested there, if it's in test environment, should be tested there. \par
Definiton of done is check point for user story. I'm done, resume ready. Ok did you do your  mentoring? No, then definiton is not done. \par
But acceptance criteria is for each user story, it's different. For everyone it's different. You have a resume yes, you have yes, but your resume is for your name, his resume is for his name.\par
What's definition of ready? I explained it I remember. Ready to start working on it. In order to start working on sprint backlog, it should be ready. If pointing is done according to acceptance criteria then development team can start working. When you give it to development team, we can start working on it. \par
You can say scum master does it, rather than that, everybody can all have an access. But in our team we have definiton of Done, if definiton of Done matches to acceptance criteria, then usually scrum master is moving it.\par
Any questions?\par
....\par
sp25 is yes it's a user story, sp26 is not. What's 26, test plan.\par
What I'm showing is pictures, this is task, story, bug , epic, test, test set, test, execution ... \par
Class member: How many different teams that we can have related to same user story?\par
N: All stuff you have, you can relate to the user story. All test related things you relate to the test plan, and the test plan you relate it to the user story.\par
---\par
Product owner is responsible to acceptance criteria. According to the conversattion product owner can add or delete something to the acceptance criteria for the user story. It's one material you're gonna shape at sprint. When testing is done, you have to cover the acceptance criteria also you may have to cover something else. You need to do the conversations to figure out what will be covered.\par
Now we have test plans,\par
What's wrong Halili, you show cuteness to others and ask me difficult questions..\par
Online people, let's focus on creating test on Xray, it's important.\par
Oguz, before test set we're gonna create test.\par
For now I'm creating a test. What's my first test scenario? \par
Reporter: Who created the user story, can be product owner or who ever is in charge with creating the test case.\par
Why we need test set. Test set is kinda subfolder where you can add your test scenarios. Because some of them you're gonna need to execute, not all of them. I'm creating a test set now. (Summary / Test Set for Sample.\par
Now looking at my board. Let's say user story is moved to testing, and my all test plan is done. Now what should I do? And code is in my environment. What starts now? Execution. Testing means, whatever you created now you're gonna use that. \par
Create Issue / issue type: Test execution: summary: test execution for sample xray. description: bla bla bla.\par
Assign : to me.\par
Environment: Which environment you'll do.\par
Now it's on sample sprint 2 and I'm moving it to the test. Now test execution is created.\par
Test Set. What it did, it brought all the scenarios.  \par
   xray        summary          test type\par
1 sp 29      xray 3 testing   manual    \par
2 sp29       xray 2 testing    manual\par
3 sp 29      xray 1 testing    manual\par
\par
Recommended Scrum information guide: A pocket guide-Caribies TTC.pdf (Nadir uploaded it on canvas page / modules as Scrum101)\par
Now what we missed here, we created test execution and test itself but in test what we missed in test? \par
Steps: 1 . Open URL  {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK www.facebook.com }}{\fldrslt{www.facebook.com\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22   the page should be available\par
Steps 2 . Open URL username, password\tab    \par
Add test executions to test plan.\par
When I open my test plan , it should show like 3 user story and test scenarios.\par
Now it's time to test it right? How I do it, I go to the execution. In there I see all of them one by one. There are 2 ways.  Not recommended , right away pass the test scenario. Now instead of clicking pass or fail right away, now, step by step, open url, now the page should be available. Yes! So what I did, I manually tested it. Now when I go back here, it says, pass. Now I go to the second, what's user name? User name. Enter user name. What's password? Password. Ok adding password. Click enter. So you're waiting. Now there is a bug, not doing anything. When I add user name it should tell me that. So I get sorry something went wrong message. I will try again. Try to reproduce the test. Anyways, what you are expecting is homepage should be sent.\par
So I did it twice, it didn't appear what I needed. It could be code issue, whatever issue. What I do, command+shift+4 (screenshot), add evidence. Now it's showing me, 2 pass 2 fail. Now I'm going to the user story, which user story, open the user story, inside it this should be the create button right away. Probably we need to do some adjustment. Let's create a bug itself. \par
Create issue / issue type: bug/ reporter: NS/ assign to me/ priority: High or highest.\par
It probably went to our backlog. Where did it go? So we go to here, ok we see it there.\par
Now let's see our board, so we create it here, then we move this user story back. Because it's not in testing anymore. We found a defect and stopped test. What they do, they decide and say that it's wrong user name and password, retest that. \par
So as a tester, don't trust the developers, never. Even if they fix something, they can break something. It happened to me a lot. So there is delete the evidence, or add another one, keep it there don't delete. \par
All team sees this board. When your testing is done, then you move everything to the Done.\par
Why do we see them seperately? I like it. Everyone sees how much work you are doing.  Whatever is on going is visible on Jira board. I know it's a little bit confusing. We will see it on Jira hands on later.  There is a quick video (Xray on Jira video on youtube).Let's check watch it now.\par
There are slight differences with configurations we didn't fully configure it.\par
I'm creating a test, summary : xtray automated test.\par
Why we use xray? You keep all your scenarios in xray. We are in a demo. You see everything is here, what is done about user story is there. Now people are working. \par
}
 